# CS-300
DSA Course/SNHU

•	What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course? For the projects in this course, we had to develop a program that stored the courses for the computer science program at ABCU. In addition, the user must be able to list the courses in alpha numeric order and search and print specific courses including their prerequisites. 

•	How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand. I approached this problem by considering the most important aspects of the project, which was the ability to print the courses in order and search, and print a specific course. I found the binary search tree to be the best choice for this functionality.  Understanding the data structures we learned in this course is crucial considering 2 of them (binary search tree and vectors) were used in project 2. Hash tables are very useful when quick lookups are required. Learning linked lists was important because we had to apply them in our hash table implementation. The approach I took to writing the code was to use pseudocode I created and follow it. I broke out some of the functions a little differently but tried to include the functionality from the pseudocode in the final product.   

•	How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project? To overcome roadblocks, I used lots of print statements in the code to try to figure out what was going on and when. I struggled to understand some of the vector sorting algorithms and recursion, so I stepped through some functions with prints until I got a better picture. I even tried the visual studio debugger at times and watched the variables change as I stepped through the lines of code. I also stepped away when I got stuck and found answers or ideas would come to me when I least expected it.   

•	How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs? This course expanded by approach by putting an emphasis on the up-front work required for efficient development and gaining an understanding of the best data structure to use when storing multiple variables or objects. I’ve never spent enough time designing my programs, just kind of start coding and work through issues as they arise.  I see the value in that work now as once the logic is worked out, it’s just getting the syntax, readability and maintainability right.

•	How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? I try to use good variable naming conventions that can be understood and code that is simple and easy to follow. In addition, I use comments throughout the code to explain what is being done in a way that’s easier to understand. I try to take a modular approach so code can be reused when possible. In fact, in project 2 I was able to leverage the Search function for the binary tree for 2 different use cases. This saved me the trouble of creating a separate function to verify the prerequisites, for each course required them, were in the course catalog. 

